# SimpleBitcoinNode

`SimpleBitcoinNode` is a simplified implementation of the Bitcoin protocol according to the original [2008 whitepaper published by Satoshi Nakamoto](https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf), 
which serves as an educational tool about blockchain technology and as a project in university course Object-Oriented Programming. In addition to the simplified protocol the project also provides 
a wallet implementation to use for managing tokens. Wallet software repository can be found [here](https://github.com/inugami-dev64/SimpleBitcoinWallet).

## Stage I summary - communal ledger model (deadline 2024-04-07)

By the end of stage I we have managed to create a centralized transaction API based on the simplified communal ledger model. The simplified communal ledger model 
implies that each transaction consists of previous transaction outputs made to the sender and transaction outputs which define recipients and amount of tokens to transfer
under current transaction. 

### About the communal ledger transaction model

Communal ledger model entails that there exists some kind of ledger keeping track of all transactions happening in the network. Right now under testing circumstances, we can 
only assume that there exists one such ledger centrally hosted somewhere in the testing network. The ledger itself contains records of anonymized transactions, whose only bits of 
deanonymizing information are cryptographic signatures and public keys that are used to validate said signatures. The only way to verify if the transaction is valid, is by 
cryptographically validating each transaction output's signature. As of now that validation is performed by Bitcoin node itself.

Transactions are linked together with previous unspent transaction outputs and transaction outputs generated by the current transaction.

In order to illustrate current transaction model, lets for example, assume that Charlie sends 1.5 tokens to Bob and Alice sends 2.1 tokens to Bob.  
After receiving tokens, Bob wants to send 1.9 tokens to Alice.

To do so, his transaction has to consist of two inputs: 1.5 tokens received from Charlie and 2.1 tokens received by Alice.  
Bob's transaction consists of two outputs: 1.9 tokens sent to Alice and 1.7 tokens sent back to Bob.

### Current features and quickstart

Currently implemented features are:  
* Database seeding with arbitrary transactions
* REST interface for querying about transactions where some public key (aka address) has been involved in either as a sender, receiver or both.
* `AsymmetricCryptographyService` interface for both backend and frontend 

The simplest way to test out the project is by having it built by maven of which there exists a wrapper in the repository's root. If using Linux or MacOS:    
```
$ ./mvnw package
```

If using Windows:
```
> .\mvnw.cmd package
```

After packaging the project you can run the built `.jar` file with, for example, following arguments:  
```
seed 21000000 5 6
```

These arguments will then be used to seed the database with random transactions, as well as run the REST API server. The transactions are built as a tree like structure
where the first wallet gets to hold 21000000 freshly minted tokens. The owner of that wallet then sends his tokens to 5 new wallets, at max 1/5 of his total initial supply 
of tokens per recipient. Then those wallets send their tokens to 5 new wallets and so on. The process repeats until the 6th level of the tree is reached, which means that in total
$5^6$ new transactions were generated.

## Contributors

* Karl-Mihkel Ott ([inugami-dev64](https://github.com/inugami-dev64))
* Dmitri Matetski ([TheGreyCore](https://github.com/TheGreyCore))
* Martin Toomiste ([toomistm](https://github.com/toomistm), *his contributions are to [SimpleBitcoinWallet](https://github.com/inugami-dev64/SimpleBitcoinWallet) repository*)
